Alone.
Welcome back to the Python programming course.
Today we're moving on.
We're seaborne.
So Proustian we looked at a few examples just to get to know someone a little bit and understand what
it's all about how it works.
I looked at a few really great examples in the gallery but today we'll proceed.
We're actually working on our challenge.
So let's move to it right away.
First thing we're going to do is we're going to start our plot and as we remember we need to plot.
Internet users by birth date birth rate by Internet users.
So we want to see if there's any kind of patterns that we can observe when we plot those two parameters
against each other.
So let's go ahead and do that right away.
This three equals s n s which is going to continue.
Numeration s and the one we need this time so shift Taieb are actually s and as dots tab.
And if you scroll down scroll down the one we need is called alleged plot.
All right.
I'll just type it in l m plot l m plot and L M stands for linear model and your model plot and what
we want is we want to posit some dorso and say stats and then here we get two parameters shift tab you'll
see this expand this plot and Dot and regression model fits across a facet grid et cetera et cetera
.
So here we've got x y and data.
So the in and it come in this order.
Personally I'm kind of used to specifying data first and then so that you get it out of the way and
then specify the columns.
You can do it.
Either way you'll see quite a lot of examples on the internet or other people specifying it this way
they'll say X equals Internet users so let's put ingenues on the x axis and white equals birthrate that's
going to be the y axis.
So a lot of people do it this way.
Let's run that you'll see there it is so that's Israeli-Jews is birthrate.
And that's that's the linear model this regression model.
But personally I'd prefer it to do it the way you do it and are you put the dot at the start so that
you kind of get get it out of the way.
Right.
You already know just by looking at this you know which doctors that working with and then everything
else comes later.
I find this approach better.
It doesn't matter again if you specifying the names of the parameters it doesn't matter in which order
you are specifying them you could specify a new order.
You will start running into problems if you don't specify the name because if it does and them you can
see that first is supposed for x and y then dadda.
So if you don't specify Dadda equals x equals and y equals then you need to specify that order.
But otherwise if you are specifying the names which is a good habit to do it to have that's OK you can
do it and either in either order.
So there we go that's plot's.
Obviously we don't say it's not already and it doesn't look like a linear relationship as we will get
closer.
We'll zoom in and see this a bit closer.
You'll notice that it's not a linear relation.
I don't think it is one so fitting a linear regression model here doesn't make a lot of sense so it
is going to say is a parameter so you could shift tab here.
It's very useful in the Juber notebooks that you can click shift tab and just get all of this help in
or for example you have to type in the question mark and run an operation so that's it brings it up
.
But Windows also pre's will but I find this very handy so you can.
And then it just disappears doesn't take up space on your screen.
So the one we want here and the parameter we're looking for as you get it is lots of parameters.
The parameter that we want where it is it's is called fits.
There is a regression.
So we're going to be as you can see by default it's true we want to set it to full so that the line
disappears.
It's not there.
So let's go ahead to that fit or regression equals false or on that I did something wrong.
OK so obviously look me shift tab again.
Yup sometimes Vinterberg.
So introgression Greg you're on that.
There we go.
That's our regression or that's that's whole plot to fault the regression.
And the other thing I want to do is we want to break it up into income groups right.
So right now we can really tell there is a pattern.
So you can see that the more internet users you have in a country the lower the birthrate are here and
the more birthrates the less energy is the higher the birthrate So it looks like there is kind of a
pattern and looks like a one over X type of relationship.
And also you can see it here in internet users we have a cluster here at 20 and then it's consistent
and then drops off.
So let's see if we see that here as well.
So this is like the same Plourde but nice and stretched out.
So here that's a cluster there then it it's consistent then drops off right and then you could plot's
by the way.
Here's a quick challenge for you.
Do the same plot for any sort of introduces dude for birthrate and see if you can find how it looks
.
So help you out with that.
This I'm also curious.
Now let's do this.
And here I will say this.
So we've done this three there's going to be four.
And instead of three inches is a safe birth rate and you'll see that here with we're afraid we've got
a hump.
And then we've got a bit of a hump here as well so we're afraid we've got a lot of countries here even
though you can really tell that there's so many.
Oh no.
Actually we're on my bed so this is 10.
That's where the countries are so that's a lot of countries because this way of course.
So that's where this is.
And then this be it is actually over here.
Interesting.
Anyway so I'm going to delete this because that's not part of the plan.
The plan is to get this to the next stage and next stage for this chart is add some color so let's add
some color I'm going to put the backslash here and add a newline comma.
Whew hew is the parameter for color income group around that you'll see that.
Now it's got color and we've got the high income group.
They're all sitting over here.
Lots of introducers low birthrate.
They've got the low income group sitting over here low Internet uses high birth rates.
And then you got the lower middle income and the higher men upper middle income.
It's just funny that it sounds like when people have Internet they don't have time to make kids or like
have children when they have no internet.
They have lots of time to create children and raise them and take care of them so very very interesting
concept of course.
Correlation does not imply causation.
And they can be other reasons why it's like that because these are first of all countries and they have
access to Internet.
And but at the same time there are other social purpose perhaps reasons why people don't have that many
children.
And then the opposite happens in the low income countries.
They're still developing worlds which don't have access to Internet and for against social or traditional
reasons.
They have lots of children but it's just an interesting observation.
And the other thing that we wanted to do is increase the size.
What you'll notice is that this size has increased in size has increased.
These charges have increased in size.
This one for some reason hasn't increased and I'll prove it to you.
I can even change this to let's say 10 4 and let's say or let's say 10 10 8 even if I were on that around
on this you'll see that this one grows quite a lot.
And then if I run this line again this one doesn't change at all.
So what's going on there why is this parameter being ignored is going to replaces back with 8:04 so
it doesn't mess up our future charts and rerun all of that.
So what's going on why is this function LMP not ignoring that parameter.
Great question let's look at shift tab here and you open it up you'll see that poor daughter in regression
model and then as we got this line fits across a facet grid so Felson grid is something we'll talk about
further down in the course what a facet grid is basically when you have like lots of these charts together
so you have a chart and another one like side by side and they come in a grid because you're changing
some parameter across there those different charts and therefore there's like a grid of nine shots or
something.
And therefore Fassett grids they take up a lot of space and they like the seaborne guys decided that
they need their own parameter inchers to control the size of these charts because it's it has to be
very precise.
So that's why here to change the size I'm zoomed in right here.
You just say size equals ten for instance and that will increase the size here.
And also another parameter you gets to play around with is aspect is the proportions of the width and
height.
So by default that's one that's aspect one to one.
But what we can change it to is we can say like it's set to for example then it gets straight shut this
way or you can say 0.5 and you get stretched out this way.
So we're going to leave it at.
We're going to take it out.
We're not going to change the aspect parameter but it's a good level of control that you get over your
visualizations especially if you're doing a Fassett grid.
There we go that's our plot.
It looks much better but so far there's one thing missing and that is that these markers are very small
that you can barely see them on this chart.
Again if I zoom out it will look better of course and probably we don't even need it to be that group
that large.
We can change the size from 10 to something lower but at the same time the markers are very small we
can barely see what's going on.
So we're going to figure out a way to learn how to increase the size of the markers in the next tutorial
and I'll see you next time.
Until then decoding